# WP to Activitypub

1. Why might I want this?
2. Installation
3. Usage Notes

## Why might I want this?

1. You want to be able to post blog-sized content, but have people be able to follow you on ActivityPub clients like Mastodon.
2. Potential to reach a wider audience without having to buy in to a particular social media network.
3. Increase interest and investment in federated networks.
4. Increase options for engagement with your work (content is likable and shareable!)
5. Doesn't require any special server setup because it just runs within Wordpress.

## Why might I not want this?

If you want to run an open-registration instance, this is probably not for you; while you *can* have as many users with distinct AP actors as you want, it's not really advisable. If you really want to do that, maybe actually use Mastodon.

## Installation

1. Download the plugin as a zip file
2. Unzip the file
3. Upload the resulting folder to your `wp-content/plugins` folder on the server
4. Activate the plugin from your plugins list
5. Done!

You may want to edit the plugin settings at Settings > WP to Activitypub; this page will allow you to enable and configure the global user, tag users, and category users, which create Announce activities for all posts in their purview.

## Usage Notes

There's a few quirks to posting due to the fact that I shoved this functionality into Wordpress, which is not really a thing it's actually intended to do.

### Adding Image Attachments

To add image attachments, use the "Media Library" button the post page to upload images as attachments, and then uncheck all the checkboxes on the items you just uploaded. The images don't need to be inserted into the post to carry over. If you want to remove an image, you'll need to delete it from the library.

### Previously-posted messages not displaying from Mastodon

Mastodon doesn't import your entire outbox; instances just pick up messages that have been sent to its inbox. As a result, when you first look up a remote account such as one generated by this plugin, the feed will look empty despite potentially displaying a large number of posts.

I'm currently working on adding a feature that'll send the entire contents of the outbox to mastodon's inbox on the first follow of an account, but that's sort of a work in progress.

### Posts take kind of a long time to save

It's because we're sending about a zillion CURL requests in the background.